# Getting Started

## Concepts

### Command Line or User Interface (UI) Deployments

You can deploy Mission LZ from your workstation, or from the Mission LZ user interface deployed and hosted in your Azure subscription. Some other configurations are possible, but these are the two simplest paths.

The command-line deployments involve (1) defining configuration settings (we have examples and defaults to make this easier), and (2) running shell scripts that consolidate and wrap the Terraform commands. We strongly recommend using these scripts because they were designed to be usable, but you could also run the Terraform templates directly using the `terraform` command line tool.

The user interface deployment runs in a container in your Azure subscription. There is a command that will build the container image on your machine, upload the container image to Azure, and run the container in Azure Container Instances (ACI). You browse to the user interface using a link generated by the UI deployment, log into the UI with your Azure Active Directory (AAD) credentials, fill out the configuration settings, and then press the button to deploy. The UI generates and runs the command-line deployment using your configuration settings.

### Use the Development Container for Command Line Deployments

If you are planning to deploy from your local workstation, we recommend using the VS Code development container specified in this repository. The container includes all the tools and pre-requisites, but you have to build and run the container. If you have Docker Desktop installed, then VS Code makes the rest of it easy. See the [README](../../.devcontainer/README.md) document in the `.devcontainer` folder for details.

If you want to deploy from the command line on your workstation but do not want to use the develompent container, take a look at the [`Dockerfile`](../../.devcontainer/Dockerfile) and the [`devcontainer.json`](../../.devcontainer/Dockerfile) file for examples on how to configure your environment.

The develoment container is not necessary if you want to use the Mission LZ user interface for deployments. Docker Desktop or Docker CE is still required to build the user interface container.

## Pre-Requisites

* **Operating system:** Mac OS, Linux, or [Windows 10 with Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10)
  >*We developed this on Windows 10/WSL running Ubuntu 20.04*
* **Docker:** Docker Desktop or Docker CE
  >*We use [Docker Desktop on Windows 10](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/install/), integrated with WSL*
* Current version of the [Azure CLI](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli).

All other tools and resources are in the development container and in the user interface container. The simplest path is to deploy from one of these containers, but it is not required if you want to configure your own deployment environment.

## Step-by-step

* See the detailed step-by-step guides for [Command Line Deployments](command-line-deployment.md) and [User Interface Deployments](ui-deployment.md).
* (*Optional*) For details and pre-requisites for the development container, see the [README](../../.devcontainer/README.md) document in the `.devcontainer` folder.
